Indicator Definitions and Supporting Information

Public Health England
<https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/public-health-england>

Indicator ID: 92377

Indicator: 
Total number of prescribed antibiotic items per STAR-PU by quarter per Clinical Commissioning Group in England (since 4/2017).

Indicator full name: 
Twelve month rolling total number of prescribed antibiotic items per STAR-PU by Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG)
within England. 

Rationale:
In order to fully appreciate antimicrobial prescribing, it is necessary
to take into consideration demographic characteristics of the population
as it may influence levels of prescribing. For that reason STAR-PU data
is adjusted for both age and sex.

STAR-PU is an indirectly standardised ratio that removes confounding
effects of age and sex in the comparison of prescribing between
different geographical areas. This method allows for more accurate
comparison of prescribing. In this specific indicator, a higher value is
associated with increased prescribing.

Policy:
The consumption of antibiotics is a major driver for the
development of antibiotic resistance in bacteria. AMR is a serious and
growing global public health concern with implications for every
Government and the populations they serve. The emergence and spread of
infections caused by bacteria that are resistant to treatment by current
antibiotics strikes at the heart of modern medical and veterinary
practice. The use of antibiotics is essential for saving lives in
conditions such as sepsis and without effective antibiotics.


Definition

STAR-PU are weighted units to allow comparisons adjusting for the age
and sex of patients distribution of each practice. Quarters are by
calendar year. The weightings are derived from an anonymised random
sample of approximately 800,000 patients registered with about 90
General Practices. They are calculated by extracting and analysing the
cost or volume of prescribing by specific age groups and gender.

Prescribing data are extracted as a quarterly snapshot in time from the primary care
provider payments system maintained by NHS Digital.

Primary care provider data are released in single year of age (SYOA) and
5-year age bands, both of which finish at 95+, split by gender and
aggregated (See caveats).

Definition of numerator:
Total number of antibiotic items prescribed in practices located within
the area. An item is an antibiotic (from British National Formulary
Section 5.1) that is prescribed in a primary care setting

A prescription item refers to a single item prescribed by a prescriber
on a prescription form (known as an FP10). If a prescription form
includes three medicines it is counted as three prescription items. The
number of items is a measure of how often a prescriber has decided to
write a prescription. It is often used when we wish to look at
prescriber behaviour as every prescription is an opportunity to change
treatment. For vaccinations and acute treatment (for example, a short
course of antibiotics) the item is also a reasonable measure of the
number of courses of treatment.

GP practice counts of items are aggregated to CCG

Source of numerator: 
Antimicrobial prescribing data for STAR-PU is
provided by NHS BSA and is originally sourced from NHS Digital.

Definition of denominator: 
STAR-PU are weighted units to allow comparisons adjusting for the age
and sex of patients distribution of each practice. 

Source of denominator: 
STAR-PU data is downloaded in report form from NHS Business
Service Authority (NHS BSA). STAR-PU data is supplied from NHS Digital
to NHS BSA as age & sex adjusted prescribing data. For more information
please visit the NHS Digital
<http://content.digital.nhs.uk/media/9348/Prescribing-measures-and-their-application-v6/pdf/Prescribing_Measures_6th_edition.pdf>website.

The data for the indicator is based on four 3-month rolling figures that
are used to generate a rolling 12 month data point. This data is sourced
from NHS
Digital.<http://www.hscic.gov.uk/media/9348/Prescribing-measures-and-their-application-v6/pdf/Prescribing_Measures_6th_edition.pdf>

Value type: Indirectly standardised ratio
Value: Numerator is divided by the denominator (items divided by
STAR-PU)
Unit: per STAR-PU
Age: All ages
Sex: Persons
Year type: Calendar

Benchmarking method: No comparison
Benchmarking significance level: n/a
Confidence interval method: No confidence intervals available
Confidence interval details: Confidence intervals not required as
population value is known.
Caveats: STAR-PU data is in appropriate to use at any smaller level than total
prescribing. I.e. individual drug class level.

STAR-PU data only includes antibiotics that are administered orally.
Orally administered derivative of BNF 5.1 codes account for more than
99.8% of all prescribed items.

Missing primary care data can occur for various reasons. The provider
may have merged with another provider, changed name or failed to meet
the minimum number to conform with NHS Digital rules on confidentiality.

Drugs are only included in the numerator if they have a British National
Formulae (BNF) 5.1 code consistent with an anti-bacterial item.

Figures will vary if compared to similar indicators at different
geographical levels as they are separate and have different criteria for
inclusion and exclusion.

 All content is available under the Open Government Licence
<http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence>, except
where otherwise stated

© Crown Copyright

